Welcome to the Life Church Podcast.
We are in Acts 2 4 to 2 community, a family on a mission to bring a life of Jesus to warranty.
We hope you're ready to hear what God has to say to you today through His Word and by His Spirit.
Amen, amen, amen.
If you've got your Bibles, you can turn to Romans chapter 5.
That's fine, that's where we are.
And we're going to be reading that
chapter together.
But before we get there, imagine you accidentally crash into your neighbour's car.
All right, you kind of reversing out, you're a bit kind of bleary-eyed in the morning, maybe the street lamps aren't working and maybe it's stupidly they'd parked across your drive the night before because that's what
you would have had to do, wouldn't they, if you're going to smash into their car.
But anyway, you smash into their car and you kind of like break it all up and you go and wake them up and you knock on the door and like, you genuinely, you're sorry.
You know, I'm so sorry.
I've completely smashed the car up.
You know, it doesn't matter how sorry we are.
The car will not magically repair itself with our sorry.
All right, we can say sorry a hundred times and that car will not get fixed.
because there is a cost with fixing that car.
There is a debt now that we owe to our neighbor because we have smashed into their car.
Somebody has to pay.
And today when we look at Romans 5 together, we're gonna discover what happens to us as humans when sorry is not enough.
Believe it or not,
your sorry and my sorry to God is not enough.
And so Romans chapter five verses one to 11, this is what it reads.
Therefore, since we've been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into grace in which we now stand.
And we boast in the hope of the glory of God,
Not only so, but we also glory in our sufferings because we know that suffering produces perseverance.
Perseverance character and character hope.
And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
You see, at just the right time when we were still powerless, Christ died for the ungodly.
Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous person, though for a good person someone might possibly dare to die.
But God demonstrates his own love for us in this.
While we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Now since we've been justified by his blood, how much more shall we be saved from God's wrath through him?
For if while we were God's enemies, we will reconcile to Him through the death of His Son, how much more have Him been reconciled, shall we be saved through His life?
Not only is this so, but we also boast in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
13 years ago, Lucas and I, we are planting life church.
Money is scarce, and Lucas isn't working.
He's had to give up his previous job.
I had small children at home.
So we did a bit of a role reversal.
I was starting work as a teacher again.
Lucas was looking after the children.
One Saturday, we were sat in brew coffee shop at the Riverside retail park in Warrington.
We were enjoying a sausage balm and that kind of, I mean, that's irrelevant really, but just to let you know, we were enjoying a sausage balm.
I know it was brilliant.
And as we were coming out, we noticed our car was not in the space where we left it.
In fact, it was three spaces to the right.
It kind of swiveled round a bit and we realized that somebody had plowed into the back of our car, knocking it down the car park.
I was so cross.
So cross because it looked like our car was a write-off and then as we made our way to kind of examine the damage We noticed this little slip of paper on the windscreen You know you can't and you kind of straight away my mind went Yeah, this is this is someone going ha ha someone thinks I'm writing you a lovely little note, and I'm not and but as we opened it There was a genuine apology.
I'm so sorry
We've smashed into your car.
Here is our telephone number.
Please call us and we will repay you and pay for the damages.
Someone had to fix the car.
The car had been damaged.
The people said sorry, but they owed us for the damage to our car.
And you know, the book of Romans, it reminds us and it tells us
that it doesn't matter how sorry each of us are.
Romans 3 says, all have sinned and all fall short of the glory of God.
You see, sin has repercussions.
It separates you and I from God and it creates a debt.
There is a debt that has to be paid.
There is a cost for our sin that has to be paid.
And there is a one of us here in this room today that hasn't sinned.
We all have.
And in God's economy, there is a debt that you and I need to pay.
And Romans 6 tells us and explains to us what that debt is.
The wages of sin or the debt of sin is death.
A penalty needs to be paid for your sin and my sin.
And the Bible tells us that the punishment for that debt is death.
That's justice.
When someone does something wrong and they're convicted in a court of law, the judge serves the justice.
The punishment fits the crime.
And our God is a God of justice.
But just like a coin has two sides, our God is also a God of love.
He's a God of justice, and he is a God of love.
And here is the tension.
Justice says that the debt of sin has to be paid.
But the God of love says the sinner must be saved.
And so God, he doesn't ignore the penalty.
In verse 8 of the passage I've read, says this, but God demonstrates his own love for us in this, that while we were sinners, Christ died for us.
God, in that moment, on the cross,
He absorbed our debt.
He paid the penalty.
Jesus took the punishment that you and I deserved on the cross.
God couldn't just cancel the debt.
He couldn't just wipe our sin under the rug.
He couldn't just forgive us because justice had to be served.
And He placed that justice upon Jesus.
Jesus paid.
Our punishment, he took the penalty in full and God poured his love out on you and me.
You see, love took our place.
Love took your place.
Love took my place.
I'll come back to it again.
God demonstrated his own love that while we were sinners, Christ died
for us.
Notice that verse doesn't say, Christ died for us when we improved.
Christ died for us when we cleaned ourselves up.
Christ died for us when we started trying harder.
Christ died for us when we apologized enough.
It says while we were sinners, while we were actively sinning, whilst we were going against the things that God said, He
died for us.
Sometimes I watch a TV programme called Bondi Beach and I watch the lifeguards.
They're looking with their eyes and they're looking down the beach and suddenly they spot someone drowning.
They're in trouble in the water.
And what do they do?
They shout advice, don't they?
That's it.
One army friend said, doggy paddle faster.
No, they don't.
They grab their gear and with all they might they run as fast as they can to the shoreline and they dive in and they swim as hard as they can to rescue the person and pull them out.
And that's what God did for you and for me.
He demonstrated his love.
He didn't shout advice to us, live this way, live that way.
No God.
He put on flesh.
full of love for you and me, and he stepped into our mess in order to rescue us.
Two Corinthians 5, 21 says this, God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
What does that mean?
It means that when we place our faith in Jesus Christ,
Our sin is transferred onto him because he has paid the debt.
And his righteousness is credited to us.
It's something called justification.
We are justified.
We swap our sin for his righteousness and we become justified just as if
I'd never sinned.
When God looks at you and I through our faith in Christ, He sees us clothed with a righteousness of His Son, just as if I'd never sinned.
Not because we've earned it, but because Jesus paid for it, because love took our place.
Romans 5 says this.
While we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to him through the death of his son.
We were enemies, yet God moved towards us.
Think of this prodigal son in Luke chapter 15.
You know, the younger son, we know the story.
He demands his inheritance and essentially saying, Father, I wish you were dead.
He goes off with it, and he squanders it, and he hits rock bottom.
And so he decides to return, doesn't he?
He expects humiliation, maybe even a servant's position at best.
But the father runs.
In that culture, it was undignified for a man to run.
But love ran.
He embraced him.
He put a robe on his finger.
He placed
a ring on his finger, a robe on his body.
He killed the fattened calf, the son expected justice, but what he received in that moment was reconciliation and love from the father.
And this is the picture of Romans 5.
We were far off.
We were wasteful.
While we were enemies, God came to us.
Christ died in order to bring reconciliation to each of us, to make us family.
And that's a gape love.
It's not deserved.
It makes no demands.
It's not reciprocated.
It is divine love, unconditional love.
A debt had to be paid.
Love took our place and we moved from God's enemies to His family.
And that's wonderful what the Lord has done for each of us.
But now this is where it becomes personal.
If God loved you and me like that, if Christ died for us while we are sinners, if justice was served and love was poured out, then the gospel should change how we treat other people.
You see, culture says,
Be kind to those who are kind to you.
Love those only when they deserve it.
Forgive people, but only when they've earned it.
But the good news of Jesus to all of us is this, while you are still sinners, I love you.
While you are still enemies, I died for you.
And the wonderful news is that the Bible tells us
exactly what to do with that.
Ephesians 4 says be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other just as in Christ, God forgave you.
Colossians 3 says these words, forgive as the Lord forgave you.
That means that just like God moved towards us,
There will be times when we have to move towards people in our life who do not deserve it.
You see, forgiveness, it always costs something.
When someone hurts you and you choose to forgive them, you absorb the cost, your pride, your right to react retaliation,
In a small way, every act of forgiveness mirrors the cross and what Jesus did for us.
We don't forgive because they deserve it.
We don't forgive because they've said sorry enough.
We forgive because we know what it is to be forgiven ourselves.
But let's be real for a moment.
Sometimes.
It's just too hard to forgive.
Sometimes the pain is too great.
Sometimes someone has wronged us in such a way.
And we feel like I could never forgive that person.
But Romans chapter five helps us again with that.
In verse five it says, God's love has been poured out into our hearts
through the Holy Spirit.
The same love that sent Jesus to the cross now lives in you and me by His Spirit.
God gives you His love to help you to forgive that person where it's too hard to forgive them.
So when we feel that it might be impossible to forgive, God
has given you a grace and a love to help you forgive someone who has wronged you.
Do you remember my story about the car when I talked about how I was so cross, these people, they'd almost written off like the whole of the back of the car was kind of punched in.
Well, a couple of months had passed by and still our car hadn't been fixed and
And I was kind of getting a little bit irate now because I thought, this is out of order, through no fault of our own.
Our car, we can't use it, it's messed up and these people promised us the money.
And then one day, Lucas said to me, he said, Sarah, he said, I feel we need to free these people from their debt.
We need to free them from paying for our car and we need to let them know.
And we'd been in text with them, so we said, OK. We said, let's do it.
And so we texted and said, we'd like to come and see you.
And on the way, I remember driving up the Nutsford Road, and there was a co-op, and Luke slept, as he does.
He has to go one step further.
Let's buy them flowers and chocolate as well.
And everything within me was just like seriously.
Like, we're going to be a few thousand out of pocket here.
and we're letting these guys get off.
You know, later, we sat in the room with these people and we just began just to share with them the love of Jesus.
We began to say things like, you know what?
We're Christians and we're just going to free you from this debt.
And there was this forgiveness that just came over me, this love of God that just enabled me just to see them as God saw them.
and just to release them from that debt of paying for our car.
You know, when God's love has been poured into our hearts, He helps us through the power of His Holy Spirit to forgive people.
And what is impossible naturally becomes possible spiritually because God is living inside each of us.
Finally today, the cross, it reveals the heart of God.
God demonstrated his love for us in this while we were sinners.
Christ died for us.
There's the gospel in four words, Christ died for us.
Those four words are historically true and personally life-changing.
Christ died.
There are so many history books outside of the Word of God written, declaring that a man called Jesus, who was crucified on a cross.
So we know that took place.
But we also know that that very historical account has brought transformation to our lives because a debt was paid.
Justice was served.
Love was demonstrated.
The possibility of enemies becoming children of God and peace with God became possible.
Romans 5 says, since we have been justified through faith,
we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Not hopeful optimism, not one day just hoping there might be a heaven that we go to, but settled once and for all peace, knowing that we are forgiven, knowing that there is an eternity that we are going to spend with our Father.
Today in this room, you might feel that you're not good enough for God.
And if you feel that, listen, you are absolutely right.
Not one of us here in this room is good enough.
Not one of us is good enough for God, but Jesus is.
He is someone who knew no sin and he has paid the bill of sin.
He has paid that penalty.
He has covered
The cost.
Imagine you're at a restaurant Valentine's night.
Yeah, those of you went to a restaurant last night.
Loads of you I can tell.
All right.
And you're sat there and said, ah, forgot my wallet, forgot my phone.
Oh no.
And then there's Chris Senior.
He's happens to be sat on the table next to you.
And he goes, it's all right.
I'm as rich as anything.
I'm a secret millionaire.
I've paid the cost for you.
Okay.
And that is the story of the cross.
Our debt has been paid.
The sin, it of the penalty has been paid, the cost has gone.
The bands are gonna come up now, but let me talk to you finally these few things.
Once and for all, our debt has been paid, the cost has been covered, but are you still carrying the debt of sin?
Are you still carrying it?
Are you still holding onto it?
And tonight I would say to you, listen, you do not need to hold on to your sin.
You do not need to carry the weight of your sin because God has given you a way to swap your sin for his righteousness.
You can give your sin to him tonight.
You can say, Father, forgive me for the wrong I have done and in replacement
you will receive the righteousness of his Son upon you.
And in that moment, immediately in that moment, God looks at you just as if I'd never sinned, justified.
You are made justified through your faith in Christ.
The second thing I want to talk to about tonight is this, are you holding on to unforgiveness?
Is there someone who needs to see the demonstration of God's love through you to them?
Do you need to demonstrate God's love?
And do you need to let go of what that person has done to you and through the power of the cross, through the strength of the Holy Spirit, through the love that God has poured on you?
Do you need to forgive
that person today, not because they deserve it, but because you didn't either.
While we were sinners, Christ died for us.
And as we sing this song now, two responses.
Jesus, forgive me.
Thank you for paying my debt of sin.
I give it to you tonight.
Give me the righteousness of your son, as I put my trust in you.
Second thing, Lord, help me to forgive in this situation.
Lord, I don't feel like it.
They might not even deserve it.
But you have forgiven me much.
Help me to reflect you in this situation.
Help me to demonstrate your love, God.
At the cross, justice met love and love fulfilled justice.
Jesus, we thank you.
Thank you for your death on the cross.
Thank you because your death provided a way for us to be justified.
We couldn't pay the penalty for our sin, but you took it and you paid the cost.
Thank you that we can stand.
We can stand in your presence, God,
can stand because of the righteousness of Jesus and help us to be those men and women who demonstrate your love to a world who needs to see your love.
We've come to the end of this week's message.
We hope you've been impacted and inspired.
Please keep up to date with everything that's happening by visiting our website at www.5churchbarrington.com